= Installing the Cycle Nearby Application

The Cycle Nearby application has been tested with Ruby 1.9.2 and
Linux.  Ruby 1.9.1 is known not to work.  Other versions of Ruby and
other operating systems have not been tested.

To run the application, you will need to install the following packages:
* Git
* Ruby 1.9.2
* Rake
* SQLite3
* libspatialite
* spatialite-tools
* unzip

Download the source into ./CycleNearby with:

  $ git clone -b SQLite3 https://github.com/AustinBlues/findit CycleNearby
  $ cd CycleNearby

You will need to locate the libspatilite shared library:
libspatialite.so on Linux, libspatialite.dll on Windows.  Edit the
following files and replace '/usr/lib64/libspatialite.so' with the
correct path and shared library name.

./update_apd_incidents.rb:dbh.handle.load_extension('/usr/lib64/libspatialite.so')
./lib/findit/feature/rake-defs.rb:      DB.handle.load_extension('/usr/lib64/libspatialite.so')
./lib/findit/app.rb:        @db.handle.load_extension('/usr/lib64/libspatialite.so')

You also need the Bundler Ruby Gem.  To install the other needed Ruby
Gems, run the command:

  $ bundle install

Once you have the above requirements complete, create and populate the
database with the following commands ('$' is the prompt, don't type it):

  $ spatialite cycle_nearby.db < cycle_nearby.sql
  $ cd lib/findit/feature/austin.ci.tx.us/data/historical
  $ rake -f Rakefile load
  $ cd ../facilities
  $ rake -f Rakefile load
  $ cd ../../../../../..
  $ ruby update_apd_incidents.rb

Now you are ready to run the application:

  $ rackup -p 4567
  >> Thin web server (v1.4.1 codename Chromeo)
  >> Maximum connections set to 1024
  >> Listening on 0.0.0.0:4567, CTRL+C to stop

Finally, if you browse to http://localhost:4567 the application should launch. It should
first try to locate your current position, and then it should draw a map showing your
position and surrounding features.

== Production Deployment (AWS)

"There's more than one way to do it."
                      -- Larry Wall, creator of Perl

For production use, I suggest Amazon Web Service (AWS).  Cycle Nearby
will fit on a AWS t1.micro instance.  This is free for a year for new
AWS users.  A micro instance costs $0.02 per CPU hour, plus storage
and bandwidth charges.  This works out to $15-$20 per month.

First step is to fork the AustinBlues/findit project repository of
GitHub.  This repository is Austin, Texas specific.  You must localize
it to get any good out of it.

Next install (clone) from your GitHub repository onto your computer
(see above) and localize it for your community.  Look through the code
in lib/findit/feature for examples.  You will need to change the
Github repository of the 'git clone' command in ubuntu-config to your
repository.  Once it works on your computer, push the changes to
Github.

To launch in the AWS cloud, I suggest using the Web interface.  Use
the EC2 Management Console Dashboard
(https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home).  You may wish to change the
default region.  If the majority of your users are in the US, I
recommend the us-west-2 (N. Oregon) or us-west-1 (N. California).  The
us-east-1 region (N. Virginia) is the least reliable US region.

After changing the default region, click the 'Launch Instance' button.
Select the Classic Wizard and click 'Continue'.  Be sure the 64-bit
radio button on 'Ubuntu Server 12.04.1 LTS' is enabled and click
'Select' on it.  On the next screen, select 'T1 Micro' instance type
and click 'Continue'.  On the 'Advanced Instance Options'
screen, under 'User Data', click the 'file' radio button, and use the
file browser to select your 'ubuntu-config' file.  No changes are
needed on the 'Storage Device Configuration' screen, just click
'Continue'.  The next screen does not need any input for simple
setups.  

Create a new key pair or use an existing key pair on the next screen.
You will need the private key (a PEM file) to log into your EC2
instance via SSH.  Click 'Continue'.

Create a new security group or use an existing one to configure the
firewall.  Ports 22 and 80 must be open.  The base Cycle Nearby does
not need any other ports open.  Click 'Continue'.

On the final screen, review the details.  Click 'back' to go back and
change any mistakes.  Click 'Launch'.  Click 'Close' after the
instance is launched, and select the new instance to monitor.  The new
instance will take close to an hour to install all needed software and
start the Web server.  You can log into the instance via SSH using the
private key PEM file downloaded above to identify yourself.  AWS does
not allow password logins, you must use the private key.

Debugging: it isn't easy.  There may be some useful information in
/var/log/cloud-init.  Problems usually are in the install-ruby and
create-database scripts.  Try commenting out the invocation of these
scripts in 'ubuntu-config', launching a new instance, logging in via
SSH, and running the scripts manually.  Contact me at
jeff.taylor@ieee.org if you need help.

== Contributors

Jeffrey Taylor
jeff.taylor@ieee.org
October 31, 2012

Chip Rosenthal
chip@unicom.com
12 July 2012

